### [][What Are Overlay Networks?]

[Bitcoin overlay
networks](https://www.youtube.com/watch)are special network layers built on top of the Bitcoin
blockchain. These networks interpret transaction data in their own
unique ways to provide additional services or functionalities beyond
sending and receiving Bitcoin.

# **Confederacy**

One type of overlay network solution proposed by Ty Everett (Project
Babbage) is a UTXO-based overlay network known as Confederacy. UTXO
stands for Unspent Transaction Output, the leftover bitcoin after a
transaction has taken place. Using these UTXOs, the overlay network can
track and manage states derived from the Bitcoin network in a
decentralised manner.

What makes the Confederacy system unique is its concept of \'topics,\'
which are defined sets of data rules. When previous outputs are spent in
new transactions, these data rules help determine which UTXOs become
valid members of the overlay network. Thus, each \'topic\' within the
Confederacy forms its own unique overlay network.

These networks are highly secure as they rely on Bitcoin\'s built-in
double-spend prevention mechanism. Essentially, users do not need to
trust any centralised party, reducing the risk of fraud. Moreover, these
networks are scalable, as users only need to keep track of transactions
that are directly relevant to them.

# **Lookup Services**

Another innovative feature of these overlay networks is their Lookup
Services. These services make it easy for users to find specific UTXOs
within a topic by handling queries based on specific search criteria.
This makes overlay networks not only a tool for transactions, but also a
platform where various kinds of data can be stored, searched and
retrieved efficiently.

Finally, the Confederacy system provides a monetization model for
network node operators. By utilising a solution called PacketPay,
operators can charge for the use of their overlay network and lookup
services. This incentivizes more people to become node operators,
promoting further decentralisation and network resiliency.

In summary, Bitcoin overlay networks, such as Confederacy, enhance the
utility, security, and scalability of Bitcoin networks. They provide a
means of storing, searching and retrieving data in a decentralised way,
opening even more potential use cases and benefits for Bitcoin.